# Vaccination-Strategies

During the global pandemic, one of the most crucial factors for thwarting the spread of COVID-19 was having an effective distribution of the vaccine when there was not enough for everyone. We set out to investigate the differences in vaccination distribution strategies, based on which types of people vaccinating would help to mitigate the spread of a given disease the most. A popular model for epidemiology, and one that models the transmission of COVID-19 quite well, is the Susceptible-Infectious-Recovered or SIR model. We implemented an SIR model using the NetworkX library in Python to simulate the spread of a disease in a population. To achieve this, we focused on three different vaccination strategies: random vaccination (control group), vaccination based on the highest k-means nodes, and vaccinations on notable bridge nodes between clusters. For this model, the goal was to see which strategies did the best at mitigating the overall total number of infected individuals and the maximum number of people infected at one time in the simulation. The maximum number of infected people at a given time in the simulation helps us to also understand different aspects of this pandemic simulation, as a major issue with COVID-19 was hospital overcrowding. This would give us an idea of how many people would need to take up hospital resources.


It appears that given a higher rate of vaccination of at least .1-.25 vaccination ratio the high degree nodes starts to outperform both the random vaccination, and vaccinating prominent bridge nodes, this gap is only expanded with higher vaccination percentages. Overall at higher vaccination rates the vaccinating high degree nodes still performed best when taking into account the total number of people infected in the model but where vaccinating high degree nodes performs even better with this model is when taking into account the total number of people infected at a given time, as this is most important to the simulations overall goal which is to find a strategy that would mitigate the total infections at any given time as this was a big issue during covid as there was not enough hospital beds to go around for everyone as there were such large spikes cases throughout the pandemic.